Context fragment of contained single entity (#2009)
oasis-tcs/odata-specs: odata-protocol/10 Context URL.md

for each category of payload by providing a *context URL template*. The
context URL template uses the following terms:
- `{context-url}` is the canonical
resource path to the `$metadata` document.
- A _canonical collection_ is an entity set [#OData-CSDL#EntitySet]

> or a collection addressed by a collection-valued containment navigation property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or a collection addressed by a containment navigation property
```

for each category of payload by providing a *context URL template*. The
context URL template uses the following terms:
- `{context-url}` is the canonical
resource path to the `$metadata` document.
- A _canonical collection_ is an entity set [#OData-CSDL#EntitySet]
or a collection addressed by a collection-valued containment navigation property
[#OData-CSDL#ContainmentNavigationProperty].
We denote by `{canonical-collection}` the canonical URL [#OData-URL#CanonicalURL]
that addresses a canonical collection relative to the service root.
- A _canonical singleton_ is a singleton [#OData-CSDL#Singleton]

> or an entity addressed by a single-valued collection-valued containment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or an entity addressed by a single-valued containment
```

context URL template uses the following terms:
- `{context-url}` is the canonical
resource path to the `$metadata` document,

> - `{entity-set}` is the name of an entity set [#OData-CSDL#EntitySet]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{entity-collection}` is the name of an entity set [#OData-CSDL#EntitySet]
```

or the canonical path to a collection-valued containment navigation property
(implicit entity set [#OData-CSDL#ContainmentNavigationProperty]),

> - `{single-entity}` is the name of a singleton or the canonical path to a single-valued containment navigation property,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{entity-singleton}` is the name of a singleton or the canonical path to a single-valued containment navigation property,
```

> - `{entity}` is the canonical URL for an
> entity,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `{entity}` is the canonical URL for an
entity within a collection,
```

```
:::

> If the entities are not members of one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the entities are not members of a single
```

Context URL template:

    {context-url}#{entity-set}/$entity

>     {context-url}#{single-entity}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Cover "contained/implicit singletons" in section Singleton

If a response or response part is an entity of the declared type
of a (named or implicit) entity set, the context URL fragment is the canonical path
`{entity-set}` to the entity set with `/$entity` appended.

::: example
Example ##ex: resource URL and corresponding context URL for named entity set.
Note the absence of the key predicate `(1)` in the context URL.
```
http://host/service/Customers(1)
http://host/service/$metadata#Customers/$entity
```
:::

::: example
Example ##ex: resource URL and corresponding context URL for contained
entity (implicit entity set)
```
http://host/service/Orders(4711)/Items(1)
http://host/service/$metadata#Orders(4711)/Items/$entity
```
:::

If a response or response part is an entity of the declared type of
a single-valued containment navigation property,
the context URL fragment is the canonical path `{single-entity}`
to that navigation property without `/$entity` appended.

::: example
Example ##ex: resource URL and corresponding context URL for
entity targeted by a single-valued containment navigation property
```
http://host/service/Orders(4711)/DeliveryAddress
http://host/service/$metadata#Orders(4711)/DeliveryAddress
```
:::

> If the entity is not bound to an entity set, such as an entity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the entity is not contained in an entity set, such as an entity
```

Context URL template:

    {context-url}#{entity-set}/$entity

>     {context-url}#{single-navprop}

Reviewer: In line 25 above we define

> - `{entity-set}` is the name of an entity set or path to a containment navigation property

Please add a definition for `{single-navprop}` and reduce the definition of `{entity-set}` to collection-valued nav props.

```
:::

If the entity is within a collection, but a canonical collection
cannot be determined, such as for an entity
returned from a function or action with no entity set path, a function
import or action import with no specified entity set, or a navigation
property with no navigation property binding, the context URL fragment specifies

> the type `{type-name}` of the returned entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `{type-name}` of the returned entity.
```

>     {context-url}#{entity-set}{/type-name}/$entity

Reviewer: This section and the preceding one only applies if the request has a type-cast segment

Context URL templates:

    {context-url}#{entity-set}{/type-name}{select-list}/$entity
    {context-url}#{single-entity}{select-list}
    {context-url}#{type-name}{select-list}

If an entity contains a subset of properties, the parenthesized
comma-separated list of the selected defined or dynamic properties,
instance annotations, navigation properties, functions, and actions is
appended to the `{entity-set}` after an optional type-cast segment and
prior to appending `/$entity`, or to the `{single-entity}`.

> If the response is not a subset of a
> single entity set, the `{select-list}` is instead appended to the

Author: ```suggestion
If the entity is not bound to an entity set, the `{select-list}` is instead appended to the
```

> `{type-name}` of the returned entity.

Author: This cannot cannot occur, because the response in this section is always _one_ entity, not a (sub)set.
